





								May, 1991

			Spice3e.2 Installation (Modified for KSPICE)

Spice3e.2 is supported under the following operating systems:
	Ultrix 4, RISC or VAX
	SunOS 4, Sun3 or Sun4
	AIX V3, RS/6000
	Irix 3.2, SGI Personal Iris
	MS-DOS on the IBM PC, using MicroSoft C 5.1 or later
	Dynix 3.0, Sequent Symmetry or Balance (does not take advantage of 
	HP-UX 7.0, 9000/300 *
	NeXT 2.0 *
('*' denotes that the given system was not verified for this release).
Other systems will require a small amount of porting effort.  Note that
the 'gcc' C compiler was used successfully to compile Spice3e.2.

Note that due to the heavy use of floating point math operations, Spice
on the PC requires a math co-processor to be effective.  Also, on the
PC, CGA, EGA, and VGA displays are supported (via the MicroSoft
graphics library).

The Unix distribution comes on 1/2" 9-track tape in "tar" format.  The
MS-DOS distribution comes on several 3.5" floppy diskettes (both high
and low density) in the standard MS-DOS format.  The contents of both
distributions are identical, including filenames.

To build Spice3e.2 follow the steps below.  For additional notes on internal
changes and porting issues, please inspect the subdirectory "notes".  The
following is a list of new features and fixes from the previous major release
of Spice3 (3d.2) (see the user's manual for details):

	Lossy transmission line model (not available under MS-DOS)
	Proper calculation of sheet resistance in MOS models
	A new command ("where") to aid in debugging troublesome circuits
	Smith-chart plots improved.
	Arbitrary sources in subcircuits handled correctly
	Arbitrary source reciprocal calculations and DC biasing
		now done correctly
	Minor bug-fixes to the Pole-Zero analysis
	Miscellaneous bug fixes in the front end

Changes from the previous minor versions (3e.1) correct compilation
problems under SunOS and VAX Ultrix, a problem affecting the
calculation of integrated noise, and other bugs.  No changes affect the
Spice3e User's Manual.

The source code and associated data files for spice3e.2 require over 6MB,
and up to an additional 22MB may be required to compile under Unix (for a
DEC RISC workstation with the compiler option '-g').  For MS-DOS using
MicroSoft C 5.1 or later, nearly 8MB (beyond the 6MB for the source) are
required.

Building Spice3e.2 on UNIX or compatible systems:

	Spice3e.2 comes on a 9-track tape in Unix "tar" format.  To
	extract Spice3e.2 first create the directory that you wish to
	hold the distribution and "cd" into that directory.  Then
	execute the command "tar x" (after mounting the tape).  Note
	that some sites may require that you explicitly indicate the
	tape drive name when using the "tar" command; this is done, for
	example, by "tar xf /dev/mt0h".

	Configuring Spice3e.2 is different than in previous releases.
	In particular, maintaining different configurations for different
	systems is now much easier.

	First you must edit the file "conf/defaults" and change the
	listed parameters to reflect the standard organization of
	software at your site.  A description of each parameter is
	included in this file.

	Second, for each type of system at your site, you must provide a
	file in the same subdirectory ("conf/") which contains
	exceptions to the previously edited "defaults" file; note that
	even if you are supporting one type of system this is necessary.
	Several files are supplied for the system types that have been
	tested with this distribution, including "mips" (for DECstations),
	"sun4", "sequent", "irix", "hpux", and "aix".  Note that some of
	these files sometimes have special definitions which are required for
	the given system and which do not appear in the "defaults" file.
	Note also that the _names_ given to these exception files are not
	significant other than to the user.

	After the defaults file has been edited and a system-dependent
	file created or modified, run the command "util/build system" from the
	directory above the "util" subdirectory; for "system" you must
	substitute the name of the system-dependent file that you
	created or modified in the previous step.  Spice3 will then be
	built via recursive "make" commands.  This can take as little
	as 20 minutes or as long as four hours depending on the speed
	and load of your system.  Compiling across NFS will slow down
	compiling significantly.

	Finally, see the section below on Installing Spice3.


On the PC under MS-DOS with MicroSoft C 5.1:

	Spice3e.2 comes on MS-DOS format 3.5" disks.  To extract the
	distribution onto a hard disk, create the directory on the hard
	disk that you wish to hold the source code.  "cd" into that
	directory on the hard disk.  For each of the distributed disks,
	in order, insert the disk into the drive (we'll assume drive
	"B:" here), and enter "B:UNLOAD B:".  This will use the script
	"unload.bat" to extract the source files off of the disks and
	into the current directory or a subdirectory of the current
	directory.

	The PC lacks the program "/bin/sh" (and others) which the above
	Unix installation depends on.  Instead we have supplied simple
	compiling scripts for use with MicroSoft C 5.1.  This less
	flexible system requires that you edit several files before building:

		src/bin/tunepc.c (built-in file locations); Change the values
			of the following C variables as appropriate -- leave
			double quote and single quote marks as-is, and use
			two backslash ('\') characters where you want one:

			Spice_Exec_Dir: location you plan to install spice.

			Spice_Lib_Dir: location you plan to install the spice
				startup and data files.

			Spice_OptChar: command line option character
				(indicates whether you want to type
				"spice -r" or "spice /r").

			Def_Editor: location you plan to install spice

			AsciiRawFile: location you plan to install spice

			The last three options (not listed here) are not
			significant under MS-DOS, but should be left as is
			(blank).

		src/bin/cconf.c		Devices and analyses for "cspice"
		src/bin/bconf.c		Devices and analyses for "bspice"

			The initial segment of "cconf.c" and "bconf.c"
			are "#define" lines that determine which devices
			and analyses should be compiled in to the simulator.
			For devices, the line looks like "#define DEV_xxx"
			where "xxx" is the name of some device;  For
			analyses, the line looks like "#define AN_xxx".
			Names and descriptions of both analyses and devices
			are as listed below ("Devices and Analyses supported
			in Spice3e.2", at the end); see also the user's manual.
			A reasonable default is supplied with each.
			Do not modify anything below the list of '#define'
			lines.

	Note that BSIM1, BSIM2, and LTRA devices will _not_ work under
	MicroSoft C (the first two because of compiler limits and the last
	due to the lack of the "erfc" function).  They have already been
	removed from the above files (where appropriate) (also, the bsim
	devices are not compiled with the "msc51" scripts).

(continued)

	Once these files have been edited, "cd" into the top directory
	(above "util\", "src\", and "conf\") and run "msc51.bat".  The
	script first sets compiler options in the environment and then
	procedes with the compile.  Since the environment may not have
	enough room, you may have to clear some unused environment
	variables before the build, otherwise the build could fail.
	Note that these options are only useful for MicroSoft C 5.1 or
	later.

	Compiler errors are written to the file "src\msc.out".  This
	includes many warnings because Spice3 was originally written in
	pre-ANSI C under Unix.  Except for these (numerous) warnings,
	Spice3 should compile and run without trouble; see the next section
	on installing.

	Cleaning up under MS-DOS (after installing):

	To delete the original source tree from your hard disk, you may
	use the supplied script "util\delall.bat".  You must copy
	this script outside of the source tree before you run it or it
	will remove itself before finishing.  Run the script from the top
	directory of the source tree (above "util\").

Installing Spice3

	After spice3 and the associated programs have been created, you
	may test the program.  There are several test inputs in the
	"examples" subdirectory. The bsim and ltra tests
	will not run under MS-DOS.  Because spice3 is not
	installed at this point, you should set the environment
	variable "SPICE_LIB_DIR" to the "lib" subdirectory to indicate
	the location of some startup files.

	Finally, you may install spice3 and associated components into
	a standard place.  Under Unix systems, the command "util/build
	system install" will do this automatically (again substitute
	your system name or type for "system").  Under MS-DOS, the
	files must be copied explicitly.

	The executable programs are from the subdirectories "src/bin",
	as follows:
		spice3		UNIX only: the simulator
		bspice		MS-DOS only: a batch mode simulator:
				"bspice < input.cir" generates the file
				"rawspice.raw", which is read by "nutmeg"
				(see below).
		cspice		MS-DOS only: a spice2 like interface for
				small runs (runs out of memory easily).
				Use "cspice < input.cir"; generates
				'asciiplots' for .plot lines.
		nutmeg		A stand-alone data analysis program;
				Spice3 without the simulation capability
		help		A stand alone help browser
		proc2mod	Converts process characterization files
				to Spice3 BSIM1 MOS model definitions.
		sconvert	Converts between ascii and binary spice
				data files (".raw" files).  Note: sconvert
				does not build correctly under AIX.
		multidec	A utility for decomposing coupled lossy
				transmission lines into equivalent uncoupled
				lines.  Not available on MS-DOS (need the
				"getopt" library).

	The following startup/data files are installed from the "lib/"
	subdirectory:
		helpdir/spice.txt	on-line information for spice3
		helpdir/spice.idx	index for spice.txt, generated with
						the program "bin/makeidx"
		helpdir/nutmeg.txt	on-line information for nutmeg
		helpdir/nutmeg.idx	index for spice.txt, generated with
						the program "bin/makeidx"

		scripts/spinit		spice/nutmeg commands executed at
						startup
		scripts/setplot		A script for the command "setplot"

		news			a start up message of your choosing
		mfbcap			graphics-terminal capability database
					(not required for MS-DOS).

	(For a slightly speedier install under Unix, issue the build
	command from the subdirectories "lib/" and "src/bin/" individually).

	For the PC, you must generate the ".idx" files yourself by
	running "makeidx spice.txt" and "makeidx nutmeg.txt".  Unix
	"man" pages are also supplied for the programs spice, nutmeg,
	and sconvert, for the mfb database format (looks like termcap),
	and for the mfb library.  These are not installed automatically.

Devices and Analyses supported in Spice3e.2:
	For reference, the following is a list of all devices and their
	common abbreviation in Spice3:

		asrc:	arbitrary voltage/current source
		bjt:	bipolar junction transistor
		bsim1:	detailed MOS model
		bsim2:	detailed MOS model, revised version of bsim1
		cap:	capacitor
		cccs:	current-controlled current source
		ccvs:	current-controlled voltage source
		csw:	current controlled switch
		dio:	diode
		ltra:	lossy transmission line
		txl:    lossy transmission line using recursive convolution
		cpl:    coupled multi-conductor line system
		ind:	inductor
		isrc:	current source
		jfet:	Junction FET
		mes:	MES FET (GaAs)
		mos1:	MOS, simplest analytic model, fastest
		mos2:	MOS, middle complexity and accuracy
		mos3:	MOS, most complicated, most accurate
		mos6: 	MOS, new, fast analytic, short-channel
		res:	resistor
		sw:	switch
		tra:	lossless transmission line
		urc:	uniform RC line
		vccs:	voltage-controlled current source
		vcvs:	voltage-controlled voltage source
		vsrc:	voltage source

	The following is the corresponding list of analyses:
		op:	DC operating point
		dc:	DC transfer curve
		tf:	Small signal transfer function
		ac:	AC (frequency domain)
		tran:	transient
		pz:	pole-zero
		disto:	distortion
		noise:	noise
		sense:	sensitivity



Technical Problems

	Please report any bugs or problems to (via e-mail):

		chough@diva.Berkeley.EDU

	or (via US Mail):

		Software Distribution Office
		Attn: Spice Technical Question
		479 Cory Hall
		University of California at Berkeley
		Berkeley, CA  94720

	
