Internal Changes from 3d2

	FILE NAMES:

	Of the changes to spice3 between 3d2 and 3e1, the
	the most obvious is the new filenames.  All filesnames
	have been converted to lowercase and are at most eight
	characters plus an optional dot and three character extension.
	This change was made to accomodate MS-DOS.


	The top level directory contains the installation "readme" file
	and a "makedefs" files used by the "build" command.

	"src/" contains all of the C source code.  This used to be named
	"spice3d2" in the previous release.

	"src/lib" is the library or "toolkit" portion of Spice3.

	"src/bin" contains the source for all executable programs.
	"main.c" is used by spice, nutmeg, bspice, and cspice (the
	latter two for MS-DOS).  The function of "main.c" is altered
	by defining the symbols SIMULATOR (for either spice, bspice, or
	cspice), BATCH for bspice, and BATCH and SPICE2 for cspice
	(no special defines give nutmeg).  The simulators use "conf.c"
	(or "bconf.c" or "cconf.c"), which is automatically generated from
	"config.c", to select devices and analyses.  "tune.c" ("tunepc.c")
	contains the compiled in pathnames.


	"examples/" contains several spice input files.

	"lib/" contains standard data files for spice, such as the help 
	files and MFB capability files.

	"man/" contains UNIX style manual pages (ala "man(1)").

	"util/" contains utility scripts, such as "build" for running the
	recursive "make" and "delall.bat" for deleting the distribution on
	MS-DOS systems.

	All "Makefile"s have been replaced with "makedefs" (and optionally
	"depend" and "makeops").  "makedefs" is combined with other
	make definition files with the "build" script.

	SOURCE LEVEL CHANGES

	(Added features are listed in the "README" file).

	DEVICES:  The interface to devices has, once again, changed.
	The change is small from 3d2.  Table size values in the device
	information struction are now pointers to integers containing
	the table sizes.  Per-analyses functions have been surrounded 
	with "#ifdef AN_xx"/"#else"/"#endif" lines.  Note that the
	"itf.h" files are stored only in the "include/" subdirectory.

	SPARSE MATRIX PACKAGE:  the sparse matrix package in Spice3e1
	has been replaced by a more efficient implementation.  The
	interface is the same.



